when you defeat please state your name
my name is Philip Agee
I live in Hamburg Germany and I'm here
for the festival and for other
activities it's the fifth visit to Cuba
in the last 12 months for me coño same
ok que fue matado por el movimiento por
la paz Palazzo Viridiana la Pueblo a
cave a public carving science over la la
la si a contrail che
well yes some people here might not know
the bad news and that is that I was in
the CIA in the 1950s and 1960s leaving
in 1968 but the good news is that I've
been working very closely in solidarity
with Cuba for the last 25 years and I
hope that that prepend to some luck
it happens that in preparation for
coming for the festival I wrote an essay
recalling as much as I possibly could on
the cia's great fear of che in the 1956
TS and of the measures that the CIA had
taken through these years against che
until the time of his death in Bolivia
this essay includes the fact that che
first came to the attention of the CIA
in Guatemala in 1954 Guatemala at that
time for those who didn't know the
history was the most progressive country
in Latin America some would argue that
the reform programs underway in
Guatemala which the Guatemalans called
the October Revolution which stated from
the overthrow of a military dictatorship
in the 1940s was the most progressive
movement really in the history of Latin
America since the conquest at that time
this was agrarian reform it was
educational reform it was the inclusion
of the indigenous population of
Guatemala emphasis on women's rights as
well and so Guatemala City became a
mecca for political activists in Latin
America of that time che had just
finished medical school in Buenos Aires
and he made his way to watermelon City
City arriving around the end of 1953 for
the next six months
che lived firsthand the CI efforts the
CIA's efforts in the Eisenhower
administration to stop the Guatemalan
process that is to overthrow the
government and establish a military
dictatorship that would turn back the
clock in Guatemala and restore lands to
the United Fruit Company of Boston that
had been confiscated as a part of the
reform program
she never forgot the watermelon
experience and one of the things that he
learned and applied later on was the
need to arm the people to defend the
revolution that is taking place for
their benefit that was the era as che
saw it and many others did too of what
happened in Guatemala because the CIA
was successful in the summer of 1954 in
overthrowing the Guatemalan government
they then established a military
dictatorship and that dictatorship has
continued really until our time in the
1990s no one knows how many people have
been assassinated tortured to death and
disappeared
through the use of terror as an
instrument of state policy since that
CIA action in 1954 some say 100,000
others say 150,000 others say 200,000
the truth is no one will ever know how
many people have disappeared and been
tortured to death and assassinated
because of the CIA's successful for them
operation in 1954 we've heard an awful
lot this morning about the CIA as an arm
of state terror of the United States of
America I would like in these few
moments that I have by me to place some
of this activity into a context one
thing we should always remember is that
we can never forget this history
in fact we should be studying the day by
day the history as it unfolds and as as
it had occurred in the past of the
United States as the power that by far
has used state terror as an instrument
of foreign policy and of domestic policy
as well through this 20th century we
should study this history and follow it
as it unfolds in our lifetimes because
it is an instrument that will always be
used by the United States until there
are fundamental and revolutionary
changes within the United States after
World War two the United States decided
that it needed a National Intelligence
Service it had never had a national
civilian intelligence service before the
purpose was to collect information from
around the world and to lose the
information in secret ways in order to
influence the course of events in other
countries the collection of information
is called the intelligence process in
this business and the use of the
information to influence events is known
as covert action or secret operations
among the different types of covered
actions is the CIA's influence and by
the way the CIA was established as the
instrument to carry out this policy
among the types of ways in which the CIA
has been used over 50 years now this is
a 50th anniversary of the establishment
of the CIA
is through the recruitment of political
leaders and government leaders military
leaders statesmen of all sorts trade
unionists these are the ways in which
the CIA seeks to penetrate and
manipulate the institutions of power of
other countries included of course our
youth and student organizations these
are considered very important because
the youth of the world and the student
population are the future leaders and so
the CIS from the beginning has always
focused on youth and students as an area
of great importance to their future
operations women's organizations as well
churches and religious organizations
professional and cultural societies I
believe I mentioned trade unions all of
these institutions generically all
around the world have been targeted for
penetration and manipulation by the CIA
one of the most important sectors has
also been the public information media
press radio and television as we've
already heard here this morning radio
has been very important in the CIA's
operations against Cuba radio has been
used in the in Asia in Europe and
wherever it was necessary in the world
press in Latin America in my time in the
1960s in the CIA
we had journalists working for us on our
payroll who were taking our material and
publishing it under their name as if as
if it were their own material they were
in other words mercenary journalists one
other category of covered actions is
known in the CIA as paramilitary
operations
for our military operations combined
with political action and propaganda is
what the CIA exercised in Guatemala in
1954 I was involved in these types of
operations in Ecuador in the 1960s and
I'll give one example of the use of a
type of terrorism at the age of 25 I
went down to Ecuador undercover in the
United States Embassy in Quito as a
political addition our main goal was to
induce or force the Ecuadorian
government to break commercial and
diplomatic relations with Cuba as was
the principle CIA program all over Latin
America the Cuban Revolution through its
overthrow of the Batista dictatorship
and its immediate reform program such as
agrarian reform the urban reform
programs and other processes that were
taking place in this country reached out
into every corner of Latin America and
it was directly opposed to all United
States interests throughout the region
the goal first of the Eisenhower
administration and continued by the
Kennedy administration was to isolate
Cuba thereby neutralizing the influence
of the Cuban Revolution we worked very
hard in the CIA to bring about the
isolation of Cuba through the breaking
of diplomatic and commercial relations
with Cuba through the restriction of
travel to Cuba through propagations
provocations against Cuban officials who
traveled through Latin America and in
1960 when I went down to Ecuador there
was a new administration which refused
to take any action to break relations
with Cuba
we had many forces on our side on the
right of the political spectrum and
through these forces we were to able to
organize chaos
knowing that the Latin American militant
military tradition was that when chaos
occurred socially and politically the
chances are that the military would
intervene supposedly to establish or
re-establish order and so we fomented
street demonstrations we had a barrage
of propaganda against the government
coming out because they refused to break
relations with Cuba one government sale
because of this program of ours it was
the government of LeSabre Maria Velasco
Abaza he was overthrown by the military
and the Vice President came in as
president he too refused to break with
Cuba and so we organized a series of
provocations which included the bombing
of Catholic churches in the principal
cities around the country these bombings
were carried out by our allies on the
extreme right they did not do very much
damage but they did cause a lot of noise
and they served more as a propaganda
tool than as something to cause damage
to these churches first there was a
bombing in one city then another city
then another city and each bombing our
friends left behind leaflets supporting
Cuba and attributed to the ecuadorian
union of revolutionary youth this was
one of the principal youth organizations
it was the principal youth organization
that supported the cuban revolution
we falsely attributed these bombings to
this regular revolutionary youth
organization and then we financed buses
and trucks to go out to the countryside
and pick up campesinos by the thousands
and bring them into the city where we
would have a mass demonstration of the
support to the Catholic Church and of of
rejection of Cuba and the Cuban
Revolution these bombings went on over a
period of months until finally we
reached Quito the capital city and there
the bomb was placed in the residence of
the Cardinal of course the same leaflets
were left behind and by the way we
printed these leaflets ourselves and
wrote the message out in praise of the
Cuban Revolution and calling for the
overthrow of the government and
establishment of a Cuban style
revolution and revolutionary government
in Ecuador we had a clandestine printing
plant and we even had the print shop
symbol of the print shop of the
Communist Party of Ecuador and so these
leaflets that were spread all over
looked very authentic
after the bombing in the Cardinals
residence naturally there was another
huge manifestation of support to the
Catholic Church which we financed as we
did everywhere and the moment arrived in
which the main
Ecuadorian military garrison which is in
the south of the comfort of the country
near the Peruvian border because of
their problems revolted and they gave
the president 24 hours to break
relations with Cuba or to follow the
priests previous president Velasco into
exile in Panama Otto Salina broke and
remained as president so we were
successful
but it was the use of this tool of
terrorism to intimidate the civilian
population to provoke support for the
church to provoke also denunciations of
Cuba and finally to provoke the military
and intervention which was the
successful tool at that time later on
after I had worked in Ecuador I went to
Hawaii and by that time it was late
March of 1964 the CIA's program in
Brazil which had been going on for two
or three years to overthrow the Goulart
government and which also included acts
of terrorism had just been successful
because at the end of Brazil have at the
end of March the Brazilian military
intervened overthrew the civilian
government the elected civilian
government of Jean goulart and
immediately within days I think if not
hours broke relations with Cuba which
was our main reason for a two or three
year long series of operations to
overthrow the civilian government
because the rod would not break with
Cuba I arrived in Montevideo Uruguay
just at the time of the coup d'etat
against Goliath and suddenly there were
Brazilian
exiles coming in to Montevideo in large
numbers and our job was to control the
movements and activities of these
Brazilian exile among other things
reporting back to Rio de Janeiro
the main station in Brazil but our main
job and I was in charge of these anti
Cuban operations in Ottawa as it was in
Ecuador before was to force a break in
diplomatic relations again because by
that time only Uruguay Chile Bolivia
Mexico still had diplomatic relations
with Cuba and we wanted to make it
continent-wide this was not just a CIA
program it was the whole United States
government program against Cuba in Latin
America we were successful the
organization organization of Unitas of
American States OAS met in the summer of
1964 and in a sense ordered all the
remaining members which had not broken
with Cuba then to bread and by September
Bolivia Chile and Uruguay had all broken
and the only country remaining with
diplomatic and commercial relations with
Cuba and which never broke was Mexico
he will creep in the few minutes
remaining that I have I want to until
you're Philip yes please
suicide will mentos so my soul you so
muchi see me photos you have provided a
lot of information on your work and the
CIA's work but as you know we have very
little time how long did you spend
working for the CIA I was working for
the CIA
since MIT's 1957 up until until the end
of 1968 devoted to Cuba only yes in the
work against Cuba it was difficult your
job with Cuba says the prosecutor now
says the witness is very difficult when
I say it with pride and Cuba was the
first on that for me to be in part of
this CIA it was very funny you know you
have ups and downs in life and at the
age of 22 I came from Tampa Florida my
native own town not far from Cuba I
visited I was abroad for the first time
I was a college graduate and I love so
much the Cuban culture the people
depends the music the food everything
then I went back to the US and I just
thought well the CIA tried to recruit me
when I was concluding my university
studies but I reject it but when I went
back to Tampa
I wondered it is such a good life an
exotic sort of life I wrote a letter to
the CIA they send me the applications
and six months afterwards I was in the
CIA and then an exhausting sort of job
thank God it was difficult right it was
a difficult job very difficult for you
yes as the witness the Cuban target was
a difficult one because the ideological
and political level of the key people
working within the Revolution I was
never here stationed in Havana and
working against Cuba but rather against
Cuba's office representative abroad and
we were all aware of the fact that it
was very difficult the main target was
the security forces the Cuban security
forces we knew that they were very very
effective and well along those years we
tried to penetrate the security forces
to recruit the members of the security
forces and no successor now says the
president of the trial a witness your
thoughts and your analysis and your
ideas have been broadly disseminated
right so every peace-loving person have
informed of your ideas on that topic
that is a dirty job made by the CIA I
wanted to inform you that Phillip has
given us this journal there a few than
have been destroyed no no as cover a
covered action I think it's a very good
publication because there are articles
and it's being published in the US and
this specific one is spring 1969 t97 it
has two
great articles one of a human sort that
makes that relationship between the
production of bombs H bombs 5 billions
yelling and how could this be used to
cure or to heal eggs there's another
article which is part of the cover is
the textbook repression on the part of
the US government and training handbook
a training handbook to terrorist forces
and torches and this handbook was used
to Train lots of henchmen in our America
Phillips in the course of our festival
you will have another space or other
spaces to make your present your charges
they will be very much welcomed by the
Cuban people and by all peace-loving
person in the world our expenses
my
if you allow me the courts allow me I
would like to announce to inform you
that at 1:30 this afternoon in room 12
downstairs is the press conference room
I'm gonna be there so anyone willing to
go to room 12 to deal with the terrorism
and the CIA I'll do that with pleasure
I'm sure that the CIA is active in the
Puerto Rican independence if for no
other reason that Cuba supports the
independence of Puerto Rico so that's
reason enough for the CIA of course we
know a lot about the FBI's repressive
activities in Puerto Rico and also of
the military and I think the picture you
get is pretty clear
love eat this it's awesome I was not
involved directly in CIA activities in
Argentina unfortunately
I say unfortunately because I could tell
you about them oh yeah but what we were
doing in one of the dáil was very
closely related to Argentina hey Tom we
said go via the mean anything and I'm
speaking of around 1963 1960
this is a period in which the left wing
perónists were were were being
persecuted and repressed in Argentina
and so we had some of the quite a few in
fact Argentine exiles in Montevideo and
we were penetrating this exiled
organization like the CIA penetrates
exile organizations all over the world
in order to collect information for the
Renault fire station one of the
principal Paradis textiles was an
Argentine journalist whose name was I
believe Julio Gallegos Soto and he was
at the center of all of the exiled
activities and he was one of their links
with Cuba Argentina had broken
diplomatic relations with Cuba and the
Cuban embassy in monitor Dale was
responsible for Argentine matters and
the Cuban embassy in monitor Dale was
responsible for Argentine matters we put
a listening device in the apartment of
this journalist
and he used this apartment for meetings
with all the other Argentine exile and
so the information we got was extremely
important around 1964 these Argentines
were going back to 2.0 sites but the
best information that the CIA had up
until then on being left-wing on the
left wing fairness movement was from
this operation in one of the data was
from this operation in my on the or ania
core I think 67 I can't tell you if
there's a CIA hand in that in many cases
because of the Gospels because of the
instability of Latin American politics
there may be a a golpea coup d'etat at
one point and many people would think
that the CIA was involved
but there's also a political dynamic by
the enemy couple will lead together in
which events develop having nothing to
do with the CIA
but speaking of Argentina I will I would
mention the real a movement of south of
1963-64 many people don't know that che
by 1962 Che Guevara by 1962 had decided
to go back to Argentina his idea was to
create a continent-wide revolutionary
movement arm he recruited Argentines and
trained them here in Cuba the first
group was under the leadership of worthy
machete
it's fueled the whole city who's very
well known as the founder of Prensa
Latina without the knowledge of the ca
without detection by the CIA my SETI and
the others infiltrated through Brazil to
Bolivia and on the the the frontier the
border with Argentina they had a base
camp at a farm in on the Bolivian side
of the river Argentina and when the
machete group began to go out on their
excursions this base camp was under the
command of fury that was his nom de
guerre is si el nombre in the air like
he was Cuban and everyone he was the
former chief of police in Havana and
he's now the Minister of the Interior
right yeah
but he fought with the machete machete
group in control myself Iain machetes
group made a number of mistakes Jase
plan was to come with a second group
once machetes group had established the
proper conditions the Argentine secured
a security service known as deep and
said vigilant Dina infiltrated two
agents into the machete group and I'm
pretty sure that they were working with
the CIA to infiltrate these and the
period I'm speaking of is late 1963
early 1960 the cause of tactical
mistakes machetes group was also
discovered or detected by the rural
police in Santa
and I said before the Dalai Lama in
Seattle and by April 9 Santa and by
April 1964 the group was completely
dispersed and defeated there were they
were about 18 prisoners taken by the
Argentine police but they were two who
escaped not one was serious personal
letter would be with Jay in Bolivia and
the other one was for a big morning they
arrived in Montevideo and this was
precisely when I had just arrived in one
of the dáil and it was my job to detect
and capture them and I never knew they
were there
in addition there was a secret Cuban
arms catch in Uruguay of which I knew
nothing about but it was there no they
had a dinner oh boy this shipment of
arms was destined originally for Santa
if they know something but on orders
from Havana I think from j.j this on
cash was divided by Ciro Bustos the
Argentine one part was given to another
Argentine group that was going to start
a guerrilla movement in tucumán being
the other part of the arm cash was given
to round standing in a party well I know
sending who attacked that forum was just
beginning to form the National
aggression movement - vamanos between
know so much about sending Adela for
mundo when he's here
middle then vehicle how soon does
another department like in the CIE
obama obama and we knew nothing of this
absolutely not eager that maybe this one
this one we'll see they did it right
under our noses he was you know there
are let them anything but then in the
1980s I'm sure they say guy that but in
the 1980s the CIA certainly was working
very closely with the military
government of that period I'm sorry I
meant from the 1970s until it's all of
that military government after the
Malvinas war they pull out my wiener No
thank you said the origin you weren't
asked a question
Martita
a report of radical brain
he explained two different tactics to
attack the socialism in Cuba reported
RAND Corporation and Iran Corporation a
la una cultura who yes
this report speaks about embargo and
also about the unreserved text tactics a
teleporter allows or an embargo yoga
tacticals the necessity of revolution
against ser alas so what resumed
political called ravika
in a trustees newspaper and we read that
people another gotta keep that every
read that the people must do a
revolution against the bureaucratic
power of Fidel Castro to save this
neurotic zagging in political resolution
in contra el poll they filled up for you
what will be the consequences from Cuba
of revolution against me
through a new associate from the return
of the capital A panel take kill the
pizza see Sarah as a second hand
revolution oh it as revolution social it
could be more socially or it who she
said our capital e another example is in
the full of the Union Soviet trotsky's
right in the newspaper really that
Gorbachev and said you'll see me go to
the democracy okay
macho plz ban a CLI no gracias
now we see what happens you in Russia
yeah LM alone especially in Russia the
support of Gorbachev and Elton is the
support of the return of the Kappa Julia
yes as your capital e don't you believe
that objectively what the drug is say
have to say same consequences at CIA say
can she take a red que la policía que
planter no Tokita and one seething
yogatina Nasir
it looks like we've returned to the
beginning I've been coming to Cuba
regularly for more than 25 years now it
though and in the world of day I made a
legacy and I really like you every day
Linda and Cathy ple
my feeling is that there's not a an
imminent danger of counter-revolution in
Cuba
see you tomorrow yeah that may be no
immunity
I mean anything Cuba is a very different
country from Eastern Europe it has a
colorful and very interesting history
and it goes back really to in the modern
times to the Wars of Independence in
Latin America you know Klaus love you
must think the main things are amending
the United States as it supported the
independence of the rest of Latin
America did not want to see Cuba
independent
a little team but we'll about them and
for all of the 19th century Cuba was
fighting for its independence either in
the long run in politics and so when
they finally have the war in Spain won
the United States intervenes and then
there's a whole series of public
governments here until 1950 so you have
a two hundred years of nationalism at
play here yeah
both vehicles are you than us remaining
and especially in the shadow of the
United States because of the special
history and because of the Cuban people
as they are I don't see any indication
at all that counter-revolution is in the
foreseeable future
see anything that I have a little weight
possibly I they this is this doesn't
make it any easier for Cubans and last
night in the conversation yeah it was
assumed I was saying that the old
refrain is so popular in Mexico would
apply just as well to Cuba is not better
stability out we got a cool and that's
the old saying poor Mexico so far from
God and so close to the United States
all remain down says Galileo's little
videos it doesn't care at all so me but
that kind of might very well be given to
yeah way of the movie yes
and what curve
Oh
and what is what's occurred in the
organization discussion is is an
organization which
yes
not necessarily have a direct interest
in that state
and I hope that you have learned why
doesn't he love me
my question
and other shirtless
power intensive formulas here a motor
opposite in tray your paragraph depart
and organic entity suffice yeah I think
I do it depends on me first of all the
question is I understand it is that
you'd like to be a comment on the
potential and actual conflicts between
the United States and other developed
countries with respect to exploitation
of the third world
Co now know spice it with whatever thank
themself they implement that make them
apply self it's a new it depends on
historical moment Paul I've been there
Belinda clear you remember the Monroe
Doctrine this was a United States policy
announced by President Monroe just as
Latin American countries were getting
their freedom from Spain
but the momentum is an eternal
independent object a little independence
there only people play South America
England the United States feared that
other European powers that Spain would
now try to recolonize parts of Latin
America would try to recolonize parts of
anywhere they see me in the game I can
only set all the highways it nope AIESEC
is Italian dimension and I'm referring
mainly to Great Britain and unmaking
level the Monroe Doctrine said that
Latin America or the Western Hemisphere
is no longer open for colonization from
Europe but a little ammonia medical
opinion oh yeah maybe
and this was just after President
Madison had also at the whether
President stated his views toward United
States policy with respect to Cuba I
mean did he mean political a super cool
this is the concept of the ripe fruit
Madison had said it's not necessary for
Cuba to have independence now Cuba is
like a riping ripening fruit on the limb
of the tree Lloyd on this inside people
Jackie
a cake I'm Melissa Tolliver and I quote
hey guys and when it did fall from the
tree it would fall into its proper
natural were under direction of the
United States ek look at the idea yeah
things are a little little popular tell
me
by the 1970s Cuba had far more United
States investment that's the eighteen
seventies far for the United States
investment direct investment than any
other country and this was the
justification for intervention in the
old story of protecting us lives and
property he'll be annex e la vidas never
again but now the question of
competition with the European powers
in the 1890s the frontier in the United
States was closed in the 1890s there was
no more open frontier in the United
States for western western expansion in
and during the 1890s the United States
experienced the worst economic
depression of its history until that
moment it was then that the leadership
in the United States let's say the
political class understood that the
United States would never be able to
consume inside the country all that it
produced and that for this reason
prosperity in the United States and a
survival of the system they're dependent
on farmers
from there comes the open-door policy
that we all learn about at an early
period students in the United States I
believe the guy in momento birthday beer
what have you
you'll find this open door policy
continuing today under another name of
course but it's still a recognition that
the United States system depends on the
exploitation of foreign markets
mentality and this is not the inning and
this is where the question of
competition with other imperialist
powers comes in yet Clinton principally
Britain France Germany and to a lesser
extent Spain
funny enemy the reality is that the
United States for its own internal
prosperity and therefore the South the
survival of the system depends on the
exploitation of foreign markets labor
markets labor and natural resources
those three things
McGowen about the Roman government and
this is what I play that's the thing
about the mini-game and access to the
natural resources the Y access why so
you